plan for bp

create a new module

now during the fetch stage the current ins thatss being processed out of bram in the next edge, the pc_reg_F has that address of that current ins that would move to the decode stage in the next edge right???. YES

need to know whether this ins is a branch ins, ig the tag would come helpful now

now cross check this address in the btb, see if any entry matches, and look at the state of it, , if its in the 10 or 11 then what i have to do is , take the address out of btb and multiplex it to pc_next_F and load it with this value instead of pc+4 on the edge(i think this would add a critical path delay that just directly sending out of pc_reg_F)


now on the edge, the br ins would move into d and the target address would be in the fetch stage
i have to pass the status of prediction to the along with the br ins, so it would go to the X stage with it.. maybe one bit indicating taken or not taken)
now the br ins move to x and my boy target ins move into D stage,


now here comes the moment of truth!!!!
br will be evaluated 
and four cases are possible

Guessed Not Taken (0) / Actual Not Taken (0): Perfect. Do nothing.
Guessed Taken (1) / Actual Taken (1): Perfect. Do nothing. (This is where you save 2 cycles!).
Guessed Taken (1) / Actual Not Taken (0): MISPREDICTION! The pipeline fetched 0x300 but it should have fetched PC+4. You must assert clear = 1, flush IF/ID, and force the PC back to PC+4.
Guessed Not Taken (0) / Actual Taken (1): MISPREDICTION! You must assert clear = 1, flush IF/ID, and force the PC to the branch target.


the data thats being sent out let it be 2 stage flag
okay for the first two cases no prob, now i need to take some data into the fetch stage, in case of case 1 and not taken, i send a data to dec counter (00)
in case of 2 , i send data to inc the counter(11)
in case of 3 , i send data to inc the counter (01), i have to trigger a flush & force the pc to pc + 4(simple may be i carry the br ins address from pc_reg_D into the execute stage along with the branch)

in case of 4 , i send data to dec the couter(10) (this would be simple as this is how my previous thing is working)

i have to send thiss 2 bit stage flag to fetch along with the br_target address
now how the data im sending will correctly update the proper entry in  btb??
(so im carry the br address also along with it i think i can easily update using the br address by looking it up in the btb and updating it)

(im still not completely understood the concept of tag, why and where its used? and also there will be entries so wait... do i have to build a large no of comparators to check each entry against the br address, and also not clear how the btb looks like (i mean the sturcture)


planning to implement it as lutram

case when btb predicts for a wrong ins : Flush the pipeline + Fix the PC + Update the BTB (set the vaild bit to 0)

